TFMpvalue
Copyright 2007 LIFL-USTL-INRIA. All rights reserved.
Contact: tfmpvalue@lifl.fr

BUILDING

  Simply run make to compile the three programs. You can activate the VERBOSE
  option thought adding -DVERBOSE=1 to the CFLAGS line in the Makefile.
  
  You may test the software by running make testpv2sc, make testsc2pv and make
  testdistrib. They respectively compute the score associated to a P-value of 
  1e-5, the P-value associated to a score of 8.77 and the score distribution 
  between 8 and 9 for the MA0045.pfm matrix file (from JASPAR database : 
  http://jaspar.genereg.net/)

SYNOPSIS

  TFMpvalue-pv2sc -a X -t X -g X -c X -m matrix_filename  -p pvalue [-w]
  TFMpvalue-sc2pv sc2pv -a X -t X -g X -c X -m matrix_filename -s threhold [-w]
  TFMpvalue-distrib -a X -t X -g X -c X -m matrix_filename -s min_score -S max_score -G granularity
  
DESCRIPTION

TFMpvalue is a software suite to perform exact Pvalue and score threshold 
computation onto Position Weight Matrices (PWM for short).

Three programs are available:

- TFMpvalue-pv2sc takes as input a matrix and a pvalue and outputs the
  score threshold associated to the Pvalue
  
- TFMpvalue-sc2pv takes as input a matrix and a score and outputs the
  P-value corresponding to the score
  
- TFMpvalue-distrib takes as input a matrix and two scores min and max 
  and computes the distribution of scores between the bounds
  
- TFMpvalue-fastpvalue takes as input a matrix and a score and outputs the
  P-value corresponding to the score using the FastPvalue algorithm for a given
  granularity
  
All programs takes as input the background probabilities for each letter (the 
sum must be equal to 1). The matrix takes as input is a matrix of real scores
that can be a count matrix, a frequency matrix nor a position weight matrix (ie
log ratio matrix). By default, the program assumes that the matrix is a count 
matrix nor a frequency matrix and transforms it to a log-ratio matrix including 
a pseudocount.

The programs TFMpavlue-sc2pv and TFMpvalue-pv2sc output a line with the matrix 
length, the score threshold, the P-value and the granularity separated by a 
space. TFMpvalue-distrib outputs for each accessible score between min and max
the score, the P-value and the probability of such a score separated by a space.

  -a -t -c -g : background probabilies, a number between 0 and 1

  -m : matrix file which is assumed to be in the following format :
  
sc1A sc2A sc3A ...
sc1C sc2C sc3C ...
sc1G sc2G sc3G ...
sc1T sc2T sc3T ...

  -w : the matrix is already a weight matrix, otherwise it is assumed to be a count matrix

  -p : requested pvalue

  -s : score threshold (minimum score in case of TFMpvalue-distrib)
  
  -S : maximum score (only for TFMpvalue-distrib)
  
  -G : granularity. Is used to round the matrix, a number less than 1.
  
  

